
===== PAGE 1 =====
S t a t e m e n t  o fS t a t e m e n t  o f
Q u a l i f i c a t i o n sQ u a l i f i c a t i o n s
S t a t e m e n t  o f
Q u a l i f i c a t i o n s
P r e p a r e d  f o r :
The City of Hannibal
Professional Engineering Services relatedto the Demolition of St. Elizabeth Hospital
3120 Palmyra Rd
Hannibal, MO 63401
573-221-4048
August 1, 2025
001-897

===== PAGE 2 =====
Dear Mr. Dorian,
MECO Engineering Company, Inc. (MECO) is pleased to present qualifications to the City of
Hannibal for professional engineering services to assist the City in drafting specifications to
demolish the “Former St. Elizabeth Hospital”. 
OUR FIRM
MECO Engineering is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year. This long-spanning career has
been built on serving municipalities, such as yours, in a vast span of projects with varying
needs, requirements, funding, and challenges. We take pride in gaining the majority of our
business from repeat, satisfied customers. 
MECO currently has six office locations, with a location conveniently close in Hannibal, MO,
mere miles from the former hospital. This, as well as our knowledge of the area and ever-
changing regulations, and our extensive experience specifically in structural evaluations, allows
us to assure you of our ability to serve the City in a high-quality, cost-effective manner. 
YOUR PROJECT
As a member of the Hannibal community for 40 years, MECO understands the piece of history
the former St. Elizabeth Hospital holds in Hannibal. Our engineering firm, MECO A/E, was slated
to do renovation/rehabilitation work for the former hospital at one point, but due to challenges,
including hazardous materials, the project fell through, as so many have. We are deeply familiar
with the area, the building, and the regulations necessary to demolish this building in a safe
manner, and one that gives the respect to the surrounding neighborhood and homes of which
they are deserving. We will be glad to sit down with the City and talk through best options with
special consideration for safety, and possible preservations of pieces of this long-standing
Hannibal pillar.
3120 Palmyra Rd | Hannibal, MO 63401 | 573-221-4048
August 1, 2025
Project No. 001-897
City of Hannibal
320 Broadway
Hannibal, MO 63401
ATTN: Andy Dorian, City Manager
RE: St. Elizabeth Hospital Demolition

===== PAGE 3 =====
3120 Palmyra Rd | Hannibal, MO 63401 | 573-221-4048
YOUR TEAM
MECO currently has 60 professionals with many talents and continues to welcome more team
members to our dedicated team as we expand. Our firm is well-positioned and highly qualified
to be considered as your consultant and engineer for your selection process based on
expertise, knowledge, and experience. 
Your specialized team for your project will include:
James D. Bensman, PE, SE, Project Manager, Structural Engineer
Matt Cissi, EI, Structural Engineer
Robert Hogan, PMP, Hannibal Manager
Kevin Garnett, PE, Civil Engineer
This highly qualified team, and the years of projects they bring with them, allow us to
guarantee our abilities to handle any and all needs associated with structural assessment and
evaluation, the safe handling of hazardous materials, environmental and regulatory
compliance, preparation of demolition plans, including bidding and construction administration
services, and permitting assistance to make this process as painless as possible for the City. 
OUR APPROACH
MECO’s “Standard of Care” and “Project Approach” is a team-centric based philosophy to
ensure that every step of project scope development and design review fully invests the client
in each step of the process. MECO does not believe in an engineer-driven project
development process; we see the most value in investing our client input in the process, first
and foremost. Our clients will always lead the initiative for developing projects and working
with our professional staff to determine the best suited solutions to their needs. 
You can rely on MECO and our Project Team to provide the attention to detail, prompt
response, and a level of commitment to service, experience, knowledge, and expertise that
you require and expect of your Engineering Consultant. We never forget that clients have
many choices and options in their selection process for a consulting engineering firm. We
would be honored to be selected to serve the District in this capacity.
For questions, or to meet with your project team, please feel free to contact through phone or
email at 573-221-4048 or jbensman@mecoengineering.com.
Sincerely yours, 
MECO Engineering Company, Inc. 
James D. Bensman, PE, SE
Senior Principal Engineer | Project Manager


===== PAGE 4 =====
573-221-4048
M E C O  E n g i n e e r i n gM E C O  E n g i n e e r i n g
D e l i v e r i n g  E n g i n e e r i n g  S o l u t i o n s  t h a t  W o r kD e l i v e r i n g  E n g i n e e r i n g  S o l u t i o n s  t h a t  W o r k
M E C O  E n g i n e e r i n g
D e l i v e r i n g  E n g i n e e r i n g  S o l u t i o n s  t h a t  W o r k
M E C O  E n g i n e e r i n g  C o m p a n y
H a n n i b a l ,  M O
J e f f e r s o n  C i t y ,  M O
B o o n v i l l e ,  M O
F e n t o n ,  M O
K i r k s v i l l e ,  M O
P i t t s f i e l d ,  I L
60 EMPLOYEES
including
(14) Professional Engineers (PE)
       Specializing in municipal, environmental,
       structural/bridge (SE) and mechanical/electrical
       (MEP) engineering
(11) Staff Engineers
       non-registered
(3) Professional Land Surveyors (PLS)
PRE-QUALIFIED
Missouri Department of Transportation (MoDOT)
MoDOT LPA Consultant
Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT)
Illinois Capital Development Board (CDB)

===== PAGE 5 =====
“Large enough to meet your most
complex project needs; small
enough to provide the personal
service you deserve.”
Environmental Engineering
         Water and Waste Treatment
Civil and Site Civil Engineering
Public Works / Infrastructure Engineering
Structural Engineering
Bridge Engineering
Mechanical/Electrical/Plumbing (MEP) Engineering
        Including engineering efficiency studies and solutions
Roads/Streets/Highways, Sidewalks and Trail Systems
Land Use Planning and Development
Parks and Recreational Facilities
Surveying and Field Services
Who WeWho We  
AreAre
Who We 
Are
573-221-4048
M E C O  E n g i n e e r i n g  C o m p a n y
For 40 years, MECO has been dedicated to
serving public and private clients. Our
ability to excel is driven by integrity, quality
and our commitment to client service. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
MECO Engineering Company
Kevin Garnett, PE
Don Jenkins, PE
CorporateCorporate  
StructureStructure
Corporate 
Structure
M E C O  E n g i n e e r i n g  C o m p a n y  i s  a  c o r p o r a t i o n  w i t h  p r i n c i p a l s ,  o w n e r s ,  
 a  B o a r d  o f  D i r e c t o r s  a n d  o f f i c e r s .  
Executive Vice-PresidentCo-Owner
Executive Vice-PresidentCo-Owner
MECO Engineering Company, Inc. is
registered with the State of Missouri through
the Department of Insurance, Financial
Institutions and Professional Registration,
Division of Professional Registration, Board for
Architects, Engineers, Land Surveyors, and
Landscape Architects as a Professional
Engineering Corporation. 
Professional Engineering Corporation
Missouri Corporate License No. 000898
Expires December 31, 2026
Professional Land
Surveying Corporation
Missouri Corporate License No. 000186
Expires December 31, 2026
MECO Engineering Company, Inc. is registered
in the following states to practice engineering
and/or surveying:
Arkansas
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Missouri
Ohio
South Dakota
Texas
CORPORATE REGISTRATION
Ryan Huseman, PE
Co- Owner

===== PAGE 7 =====
EXPERIENCEsimilar
MECO Engineering Company

===== PAGE 8 =====
R e f e r e n c e :
L a n c e  K e n d r i c k ,  C i t y  A d m i n i s t r a t o r
2 1 7 - 3 3 5 - 2 2 1 5  /  l k e n d r i c k @ b a r r y i l . o r g
Demolition StructuralDemolition Structural
Investigation of BuildingsInvestigation of Buildings
Demolition Structural
Investigation of Buildings
744 Mortimer Street
Barry, IL
MECO provided structural engineering services to complete a demolition-related
structural investigation of two buildings located at 744 Mortimer Street, Barry, Il.
Services included performing structural observations in the areas of the buildings
to be demolished and possible affected by demolition, preparation of a letter-report
with demolition recommendations, followed up by contract documents, structural
observations and data collection, and construction phase engineering services. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
Provided engineering services for modifications to existing buildings at Harbison-Walker
Refractories Company plant at 1301 Westminster Ave, Fulton, MO. Services provided
included structural analyses and design of bracing for two (2) steel-framed and metal
sheeted buildings that remain after removal of part of the 1947 plant building lcoated in the
center part of the building complex. One separation/cut was proposed at the northerly end
of the building complex to isolate Building #1B, and a second separation/cut was proposed
at the southerly end to isolate either framelines 1 through 4 or 1 through 8. Drawings
showing proposed bracing and other required structural details were generated for the
owner's use in completing the modifications. 
Additional Services were requested which included structural modifications to existing
Tunnel Kiln building at Harbison-Walker Refractories Company plant at 1301 Westminster
Ave, Fulton, MO. Basic Services provided included onsite data collection and observation of
existing conditions, structural analyses and design of new wall system along south end of
proposed north building "cut" at Column Line 42. Also performed design of new wall and roof
panels to be installed on the separated south and north buildings, that were to remain after
proposed removal of the middle part of the 1947 Tunnel Kiln plant building. Drawings
showing proposed structural details and specifications will be generated for the owner's
use in constructing the modifications.
A N H  R e f r a c t o r i e s / H a r b is o n - W a l k e r  R e f r a c t o r i e s C o m p a n y
F u l t o n ,  M O
Mining + Raw MaterialsMining + Raw Materials  
Building Analysis + Bracing DesignBuilding Analysis + Bracing Design
Mining + Raw Materials 
Building Analysis + Bracing Design
R e f e r e n c e :
J i m  Z a j i c e k :  4 1 2 - 3 7 5 - 6 8 1 4
D a v e  K e l l e r :  5 7 3 - 6 4 2 - 8 7 8 7

===== PAGE 10 =====
MECO Engineering has performed structural evaluations on
numerous buildings/roofs/foundations for various clients,
spanning many different needs and types of buildings. Some
of this experience includes:
Hannibal, MO Police Department Roof
Kirksville, MO Theatre Building
City Hall, Moberly, MO
Columbia, MO
Mayesville School Buildings
Lake Ozark, MO
Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity House
Canton Christian Church, Canton, MO
Immanuel Lutheran Church
Central Methodist University
Top Flite Financial, Inc. 
Schowengerdt House for Warren County Historical Society
Ewing Senior Housing
Watlow Industries Roof Slab
Countless Homes and Roofs
Boonville, MO
Richman Asset Management, INC.
Structural EvaluationStructural Evaluation  
Experience SummaryExperience Summary
Structural Evaluation 
Experience Summary

===== PAGE 11 =====
3 0 %
Project Manager / Contact
     573-221-4048
MECO Engineering Company
YOURYOUR  TEAMTEAMYOUR TEAM
James D. Bensman, PE, SEJames D. Bensman, PE, SEJames D. Bensman, PE, SE
Matt Cissi, EI
Structural Engineermcissi@mecoengineering.com
Kevin Garnett, PE
Civil Engineer
Robert Hogan, PMP
Civil Engineer, Hannibal Manager
3 5 %
2 5 %
2 0 %
% represents available capacity
rhogan@mecoengineering.com
kgarnett@mecoengineering.com

===== PAGE 12 =====
There are many ways to measure past performance and the standards are different for each. However,
we firmly hold that our actions that result in client satisfaction and ultimately, client retention, are the
best measure of success. Our goal is to provide a quality project, on time and on budget.
Control of Costs
MECO estimates the project costs based on historical bids in cooperation with the current industry
rates. Once the project has been awarded, we track each of the contracts under construction and the
allocated amount awarded. Monthly pay applications submitted are reviewed and approved. Should
change orders be necessary, they are incorporated within the excel sheet of each contract where
funds are taken from the contingencies to increase their specific area contracts. We follow the project
from conceptual project drawings and estimates through preliminary engineering reports, financing
document submittals, the bidding process, and final construction costs. Final lean waivers for material
suppliers and affidavits for prevailing wages are obtained to ensure all is in order prior to final payment
and completion of projects. This process allows MECO to keep a close eye on cost and keep the
county fully informed of the progress of the project. 
Quality Control/ Quality Assurance
Our Quality Control/Quality Assurance Team is comprised of principals/senior engineers who bring
their years of combined experience and knowledge to the review table. 
Team Members:
Kevin Garnett, PE, Executive Vice President
Donald Jenkins, PE, Executive Vice President
Ryan Huseman, PE, Senior Engineer 
Scott E. Vogler, PE, Senior Principal Engineer
Max F. Middendorf, PE, Senior Principal Engineer
James D. Bensman, PE, SE, Senior Principal Engineer
The leader of the QC/QA Team is determined by the engineering discipline and project scope of
services. For this project, the leader will be Max F. Middendorf. Project concept, design plans and
drawings, technical specifications, contract documents, and estimates of probable cost, project
schedule and budget will be closely reviewed by Mr. Middendorf during the design phase.
Construction phase will bring review of project progress to determine compliance with construction
schedule/deadlines, review of change orders, quantities, pay requests, inspector’s logs, and
compliance with project budget and schedule. The majority of our business is repeat business. This is
the direct result of satisfied customers. 
Past RecordPast RecordOf PerformanceOf PerformancePast RecordOf Performance

===== PAGE 13 =====
As MECO’s Licensed Structural Engineer (SE-Illinois), Mr. Bensman leads theStructural Department and is responsible for structural projects undertaken by thefirm. He is also a Civil and Municipal Engineer. Mr. Bensman began his career withMECO in 1997 as an engineer intern. He worked up to a Vice President/PrincipalEngineer and has now taken on a new role as a Senior Principal Engineer. 
His engineering responsibilities include project management, design, bridgeengineering, construction management; structural and hydraulic design/analysis,structure load-rating, hydraulic and bridge report and cost estimate preparation forstructural projects. Mr. Bensman comes with a wide range of experience from workson highway bridges, streets, roads and highways, water and waste water treatmentplants, industrial facilities, storm water facilities, retaining walls, and municipalbuildings. He is qualified to perform ultrasonic testing procedures on steelstructures, including thickness testing/subsurface defect detection. 
PROJECT EXPERIENCE
Structural Engineering ExperienceStructural analysis of a portion of the roof system of the University of MissouriMedical Science Building, Columbia, MO, and design of structural modifications toincrease capacity for installation of new HVAC units. Structural analysis ofinvestigations at numerous historic buildings. Structural design and analysis of steelladder and platform systems for two water tanks for Trikoke, LLC, including finiteelement structural analysis of steel room systems. Designed reinforced concrete tanks, basins, foundations, and related structures forwaste water treatment facilities (new/conversion/expansion projects) for the PWSD #1of Lincoln County, Winfield, MO and for cities of Fayette, Marshfield, MontgomeryCity, Bourbon, Deepwater, and Warrenton, MO. Structural design for new UV system at the Boonville, MO Wastewater TreatmentPlant and miscellaneous concrete basins for various projects; Pittsfield WaterTreatment Plant, Curran Gardner Townships PWD, Springfield, IL Expansion, City ofVienna, MO Water Treatment Plant. 
Utility: Consulting Engineer, Winfield, MOWastewater treatment plant improvements (PER); sanitary sewer collection systemimprovements, water distribution system improvements, structural investigations,storm water, general engineering and consulting services. 
Roadways: Concrete street widening/intersection improvements; City of Hannibal, MO: Red DevilRoad extension, including 3-cell box culvert, West Ely Road reconstruction/drainage,Veterans Road (3.24 mile North-South connector), Hannibal/Marion County, MO
Bridges: Cooper County CommissionEllis Davis 2-span (63’-63’) bridge with a 20° skew (replaces low water crossing);Eastwood Rd Brg. 
Ralls County Commission: Bailey Brg over Salt River; Wisconsin Ln. over GallaherCreek; Camp Creek Ln. Brg over Camp Creek
Numerous bridges for Marion County Commission, Palmyra, MO (including): Shade Brg No. 16700011 at CR 230; Keller Brg No. 28900111 on CR 153 over Keller Branch (Credit Bridge), Bay de Charles Brg No. 18600051Dearing Creek Brg No. 07200021 over S. Fabius RiverNew Market Brg No. 19500181 over S. Fork of North RiverClear Creek Brg No. 25200101 over Clear CreekGottman Brg. No. 18700261 over Branch CreekNorth River Brg No. 1600041 over North RiverSouth River Brg No. 22800171 over South RiverHall Brg No. 28900071 over South Fabius RiverFranklin County F-270 Sapsucker Rd Brg
Utility Planning/DesignHoward County Regional Water Commission, New Franklin, MO: Foundation designfor WTP, 500,000-gallon elevated tank, well house, generators/City of Pittsfield, ILfoundation design for new WTP, well houses/generators/Bob’s Creek WastewaterTreatment Plant, PWSD #1 of Lincoln County, MO foundation design for building,basins and other structures for the 1.5 MGC Membrane Reactor.
James D. Bensman, PE, SE
SENIOR PRINCIPAL ENGINEER
OFFICE LOCATION
Hannibal, MO
AREA OF EXPERTISE
Structural Analysis, Evaluations
Investigations and Reports
Structural
Engineering/Design/Analysis
Bridges, Buildings, Foundations,
Steel, Masonry, Wood, Reinforced
Concrete Structures
Bridge Related Road
Geometry/Pavement Design and
Drainage
Hydrology/Hydraulics
Seismic Design and Analysis
Ultrasonic Testing
Client/Project Development
PROFESSIONAL HISTORY
MECO Engineering
Vice President/Principal Engineer/
Director of Engineering (Hannibal)/
Senior Structural Engineer (SE)
1997-present............. 28 years
EDUCATION
New Mexico State University, Las
Cruces, New Mexico Bachelor of
Science, Civil Engineering, 1996
PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION
Professional Engineer (PE)
MO E-2001018705 (2001)
IL No. 062-058863 (2006)
IA No. P27395 (2022)
AR No. 21107 (2022)
Structural Engineer: 
IL No. 081-006043 (2004)
PRE-QUALIFICATIONS
PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS
MoDOT LPA Certified Project
Manager
American Society of Civil Engineers
Chi Epsilon National Civil 

===== PAGE 14 =====
Mr. Cissi brings a broad skill set to his position as a civil engineer for 
MECO Engineering Company. His educational background is 
extensive, giving him the expertise needed to analyze engineering 
tasks and provide timely and accurate solutions to the client. 
Communicating with clientele and gaining their input on the project is 
important to Mr. Cissi.
Along with his diverse engineering education, Mr. Cissi’s experience 
is focused on foundation design, structural concrete design, structural 
steel design, and both residential and commercial structural 
investigations.
In his time at MECO, Mr. Cissi has performed many different job 
duties, making him a valuable consultant, with a wide breadth of 
experience. He has been involved in many different types of 
structural engineering, investigation, and inspection projects.
PROJECT EXPERIENCE
PRIMUS CompaniesProject Engineer, design of a tapered retaining wall design for McKenzie Family Dentistry
Village of Elsah, ILProject Engineer, design of structural repairs and retrofitting to stabilize village hall bell tower
City of Pilot GroveProject Engineer, design of concrete clarifier structure for wastewater treatment system improvements
Ennis-Flint Inc.Project Engineer, design of structural modifications to column locations of facility addition as well as the replacement of damaged existing columns 
Quincy Properties LLCProject Engineer, structural investigation of the exterior stairwells and balconies with an accompanying letter report
Big Cedar Wilderness ClubProject Engineer, structural investigation of private balcony railings, exteriorwalkway railings, and stairwell railings on 7 lodge buildings with an accompanying letter report
Doyle EnterprisesProject Engineer, design of piers, footings, and slab for pre-engineeredmetal building addition
Zion Lutheran ChurchProject Engineer, Concrete Masonry Unit (CMU) design for replacement of church’s west wall
Washington County Water CoProject Engineer, design of structural CMU building, concrete slab, and foundations for booster pump station
Village of Godfrey, ILProject Engineer, design of CMU openings, steel columns, steel beams,steel connections, and foundations for concession building in GlazebrookPark
M a t t  C i s s i ,  E I
E N G I N E E R
OFFICE LOCATION
Hannibal, MO
AREA OF EXPERTISE
Structural Engineering
Structural Investigation
Foundation Engineering
Computer Aided Drafting Design 
RAM Elements, RAM 
Connections, 
DSAnchors, RISA 3D, 
AUTOCAD
Microsoft Office
EXPERIENCE
MECO Engineering
Staff Engineer
2020 - present
EDUCATION/CERTIFICATIONS
University of Missouri/Washington 
University Joint Undergraduate 
Engineering Program
Bachelor of Science in Civil 
Engineering, 2020
REGISTRATION
Registered Engineering Intern (EI)
Missouri EI- 2020041165

===== PAGE 15 =====
Mr. Hogan is a management and engineering professional with
twenty-one years of experience in consulting, mine operations
management, and project management. This work occurred in various
sectors of the mining industry throughout the United States. He was recently
promoted to Hannibal Office Manager and aims to manage on grounds of
trust, transparency, and solid communication.
He came to MECO in 2024 and has been valuable in bringing a
unique area of expertise and knowledge to our team. With his
extensive experience from the mining industry, Mr. Hogan is an expert
on minerals and the effects of engineering to the earth. 
PROJECT EXPERIENCE
Project Manager – Butte Blackjack Project – April 2021 to August 2024
Managed all project site activities including employees,contractors,
permitting, and community relations
Project focused on creating an underground mine in the historic
polymetallic deposits of the Butte mining district
Superintendent – March 2019 to January 2021
Managed daily operations and special projects at five dolomitic
aggregate facilities and one sand yard
Supported the replacement of a slurry system at a flagship plant,
resulting in a 30% improvement in throughput and increased availability
Lead two plant optimization projects resulting in a 20% and 28%
improvement in plant throughout respectively
Managed a portable screen replacement project generating a 40%
increase in productivity at a key facility
Managed the relocation and set-up of two separate portable crushing
and screening plants, each requiring diesel power generation
Nyrstar – East Tennessee Mines – Jefferson City Tennessee
Coy Mine Superintendent – June 2018 to February 2019
Managed production, maintenance, and utility operations for a 600,000
ton per year underground zinc mine
Coordinated efforts between production and technical services
including capital project scheduling, developmental drilling, and special
projects
Managed the production, utility, and maintenance crews improving
equipment availability from 87% to 93% and increasing tons hoisted by
12%
Ensured operations activities exceeded all regulatory requirements and
worked to improve supervisors and miners understanding of MSHA
regulations
Huber Carbonates LLC – Quincy Illinois
Production Manager – October 2017 to June 2018
Managed production operations and planning for the processing plant
Duties included short and mid-range production scheduling for eight
roller mills, four ball mills, and two impact mills
Coordinated with the maintenance department to mitigate production
disruptions during scheduled repairs
Worked with supervisors to improve compliance
R o b e r t  H o g a n ,  P M P
S E N I O R  E N G I N E E R ,  H A N N I B A L  O F F I C E  M A N A G E R
OFFICE LOCATION 
Hannibal, MO
AREA OF EXPERTISE/DESIGN Project Management
Computer Aided Drafting Design  AutoCAD Civil 3D, Map, Raster  Design, Carlson SurvCADD
GIS  ESRI ArcGIS/ArcView
Microsoft Office ProgramsSite Development/StormwaterDesign
Hydrologic Analysis
Preparation of Plants/Reports/Specifications
ConstructionManagement/Observation
Client/Project Development
Environmental Planning & Permitting
EXPERIENCE
MECO Engineering
Engineer
Dec. 2024 -present.......... 1 year
Other Firms........................ 22 years
Total Experience.............. 23 years
EDUCATION/CERTIFICATIONS
 Montana Technological University
Doctor of Philosophy - Ph.D. Earth
Science & Engineering - January
2023-Present
Master of Science Mining
Engineering 2022
Southern Illinois University
Bachelor of Science Mining and
Mineral Engineering - 2003
PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION
Registered Engineer
IIllinois No. 0062-057955, 2004
Missouri No. 2006023228, 2006
PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS
Society for Mining, Metallurgy, and
Engineering (SME)
Project management Institute (PMI)
Knights of Columbus

===== PAGE 16 =====
Mr. Garnett brings a broad skill set to his position as a civil engineer for
MECO Engineering Company. His background is extensive, giving him the
expertise needed to analyze engineering tasks and provide timely and
accurate solutions to the client. Communicating with clientele and gaining
their input on the task-at-hand is important to Mr. Garnett.
Along with his diverse experience, Mr. Garnett brings an important
background in industry to the firm. His practical knowledge ranging from
planning and permitting to construction management to site design is a
valued asset in preparing permits, preliminary plans, and construction
documents as well as ensuring projects are built according to plan.
Mr. Garnett’s experience is focused on site design, stormwater, and mining
and environmental planning and permitting. While this is his specialty area,
he possesses a diverse knowledge of other civil engineering practices
including: hydrologic analysis, construction, cost estimation, and site layout/
construction staking.
PROJECT EXPERIENCE
Missouri Department of Transportation
Holden Water Main Relocation
Project Engineer responsible for design and construction phase services for
relocation of approximately 5,200 LF of ductile iron water main, installation
of new water services, and connection to existing water mains in advance of
major MoDOT construction on Highway58 and Highway 131 through Holden.
Scope of services included design and permitting of water main relocation,
replacing 100-year-old, 4-inch ductile iron water main located under the
highway with 6-inch ductile iron water main located in a newly designated
utility corridor, coordination with State and Local authorities, coordination
with other utilities, and providing Resident Inspection services.
Cooper County Consolidated Public Water Supply District #1
Drinking Water Engineering Report Grant
Project Engineer responsible for Preliminary Engineering Report (PER)
development under the Missouri DNR Drinking Water Engineering Report
Grant (DWERG) program for multiple capital improvements within the District.
Report scope included improvements in supply, storage, distribution,
and emergency interconnection intended to serve as an overall capital
improvement plan for use by the District as funding becomes available.
Water System Improvements
Project Engineer responsible for construction phase services on USDA Rural
development funded Water System Improvement project. Project scope
included rehabilitation of an existing water supply well, construction of a
new 200,000 gallon ground storage tank and booster station, and
construction of approximately 18,000 LF of PVC water main.
ABS Water Co-Op
Water Main Extensions
Project Engineer responsible for calculations, design, and permitting of
multiple water main extensions within the ABS system. Services include
design, coordination with property owners, Illinois EPA, and Illinois DNR,
Illinois EPA permitting, Illinois State Historic Preservation clearance, and
coordination with Contractors through the construction phase.
K e v i n  G a r n e t t ,  P E
E X E C U T I V E  V I C E  P R E S I D E N T
OFFICE LOCATION 
Pittsfield, IL
AREA OF EXPERTISE/DESIGN Project Management
Computer Aided Drafting Design  AutoCAD Civil 3D, Map, Raster  Design, Carlson SurvCADD
GIS  ESRI ArcGIS/ArcView
Site Development/StormwaterDesign
Hydrologic Analysis
Preparation of Plants/Reports/Specifications
Cost Estimates
ConstructionManagement/Observation
Client/Project Development
Environmental Planning & Permitting
Reclamation of Drastically DisturbedLand
EXPERIENCE
MECO Engineering
Engineer
Dec. 2018 -present.......... 7 years
Other Firms........................ 6 years
Federal Government.... 9 years
Mining Industry................. 4 years
Total Experience.............. 26 years
EDUCATION/CERTIFICATIONS
 Missouri University of Science 
& Technology (formerly University of
Missouri-Rolla) 
Bachelor of Science/Civil
Engineering, 1999
PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION
Registered Engineer
IIllinois No. 0062-057955, 2004
Missouri No. 2006023228, 2006
PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS
National Society of Professional
Engineers
Missouri Society of Professional
Engineers
  (NEMO Chapter President)

===== PAGE 17 =====
We look forward to hearing from you!
Thank YouThank YouThank You
James D. Bensman, PE, SE
573-221-4048
jbensman@mecoengineering.com
www.mecoengineering.com